Now another core service on AWS is the Amazon
Relational Database Service, or RDS.
And this takes a Platform as a Service approach to running
databases that we can leverage within our applications that
are running on the platform.
So at a high level within RDS, first of all,
it's important to note that it is a fully managed
service for relational databases,
and it does handle core things like provisioning and
patching, backup and recovery of your database.
These are all things that if you had to do it yourself,
it would take a fair amount of time to implement this. And then to handle it at
scale, it would take a fair amount of automation to integrate it in, and you
get this by default when leveraging the service.
Now one of the great things about RDS is that it does support
deployments across multiple availability zones,
and it also supports read replicas for some of the platforms.
That means you can actually scale out your databases.
This can help you scale more efficiently within the
applications that are leveraging this database.
Now it's important to note that when you launch an RDS instance,
it does launch into a VPC, or virtual private cloud.
Now we talked previously about EBS and different volume types,
and here within RDS, we have two different volume types that are available to us.
First of all, we have General Purpose SSDs,
and then we have Provisioned IOPS SSD drives.
Now let's talk about the different platforms that
are supported within Amazon RDS.
First of all, we have MySQL.
In addition, we have Postgres, MariaDB, Oracle, SQL Server, and Amazon Aurora.
Now Amazon Aurora is an option that was actually created in the beginning to
work on RDS. And it is a MySQL and Postgres compatible relational database
that was built from the beginning for the cloud.
And it combines performance and availability of traditional
enterprise databases with the simplicity and cost
effectiveness of open source databases.
Now,
you might be wondering if you have a database that's running within
your own datacenter and you want to figure out how to get your data
into a service like RDS, how would you do that?
Well, AWS helps you solve that problem too.
So we have the Amazon Database Migration Service, or DMS.
And what this enables you to do is to move your data
into AWS from your existing databases.
And it supports both a one‑time and a continual migration of your data.
And the great thing is, is it does support out of the box,
many both commercial and open source databases, and in this case you only pay for the compute that you leverage in the migration process.